## Proposal

Proptest is a property testing framework for programs written in Rust language. It aims to help determine if certain properties hold for a program when given "arbitrary" inputs. If they don't, it claims to provide the simplest input that leads to test failure through a process called shrinking.

Our problem statement consists of multiple questions:
- Is it provable that proptest generates the actual minimal output for all scenarios?
- If it is not, can we improve the shrinking algorithm and strategy for specific cases? By specific cases, we mean functions that input complex data structures or the ones that require more appropriate definitions of what a minimal input is.

For the proving part, as proptest employs a binary search algorithm to find the minimal test case, we can try to model all data types and algorithms to prove whether they are compatible with the approach. In case of any defect, we may find counterexamples to disprove the claim of being minimal. Another approach would be to create linear equations representing supported data types. Once that is done, we can run those equations on a Linear optimization solver for our minimization problem. A comparison with the results from the solver and proptest can help determine if any discrepancy.

Still, as proptest is using a general approach against all programs, we suspect that it will have problems with definite use cases. A solution to that will include introducing better minimalism criteria and more efficient algorithms to satisfy them.

<!-- We think that a possible solution can consist of the generation of some Rust programs and testing them with the proptest framework and trying to find a better and more reduced test case than what has been generated by proptest. If we could find such a thing, it means that the test cases or obviously not minimal in all cases, if we could not, we shall delve into the test case generation mechanism and try to extract its corresponding formula in order to deal with it.
 -->
 
 By the intermediate demo, we will aim to have a model consisting of linear equations for integers and string data types. On top of that, we hope to verify if binary search is indeed the correct approach for those two data types as well. 
